Add new blog - Write clean rails code with fear (#239)
incubyte/incubyte.github.io: content/blog/write-cleaner-rails-code-with-fear.md

+++
title = "Stop Fearing nil: Write Cleaner Rails Code With Fear"
slug = "write-cleaner-rails-code-with-fear"
date = 2024-10-28T11:35:54+05:30
image = "/images/2024/write-cleaner-rails-code-with-fear/header.svg"
draft = false
authors = ["Tilak Patidar"]
description = ""

> tags = ["Rails", "Ruby", "Clean Code", "Fear Gem"]
> categories = ["Rails", "Ruby", "Clean Code", "Fear Gem"]

Reviewer: existing tag and category for Rails is "Ruby on Rails", so it would be better to use that, so that all Rails blogs can be accessed through that

We can remove Fear Gem as a tag and category
This feature helps group similar things together. Fear does not qualify as a tag or category
```suggestion
tags = ["Ruby on Rails", "Ruby", "Clean Code"]
categories = ["Ruby on Rails", "Ruby", "Clean Code"]
```

type = ""
+++

> Ever found yourself drowning in a sea of nil checks? Or perhaps you've built a fortress of begin/rescue

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ever found yourself drowning in a sea of `nil` checks? Or perhaps you've built a fortress of begin/rescue
```

blocks just to handle potential errors? If you're nodding along, you're not alone. Ruby developers often
find themselves writing defensive code: checking for nil values, handling edge cases, and wrestling with

> error management. It's like walking on eggshells, always afraid of what might break.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
error management. It’s like walking on eggshells, constantly fearing what might break.
```

> Picture this: You’re crafting a Ruby application, and it’s like building a house of cards. One missing nil check,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Picture this: 

You’re crafting a Ruby application, and it’s like building a house of cards. One missing nil check,
```

and everything tumbles down. Your code is peppered with defensive programming, if statements nested so deeply
they’re practically forming a pyramid, and begin/rescue blocks scattered like safety nets throughout your application.
We’ve all been there, and let’s be honest - it’s not the Ruby elegance we signed up for.

But what if you could write Ruby code that flows like poetry? Where nil values are tamed, errors are handled

> gracefully, and nested conditionals are a thing of the past? That’s where our unlikely hero steps in – the Fear gem.

Reviewer 2: Adding a link when we introduce it can be helpful
```suggestion
gracefully, and nested conditionals are a thing of the past? That’s where our unlikely hero steps in – the [Fear gem](https://github.com/bolshakov/fear)..
```

> Here’s the cool part: The Fear gem is like a trusty sidekick for your Ruby code. Despite its name, it actually makes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Here’s the cool part:** 

The Fear gem is like a trusty sidekick for your Ruby code. Despite its name, it actually makes
```

coding less scary! Think of it as a special tool that helps you write cleaner, safer code without all the messy checks

> and balances. It takes the best ideas from another programming language called Scala and brings them to Ruby in a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and balances. It takes the best ideas from Scala and brings them to Ruby in a
```
